For these salmon harvest bowls, broccoli and Brussels sprouts are roasted on a sheet pan with salmon, then served in a bowl with quinoa, feta, cranberries, and pistachios, a perfect bowl of fall flavors.

Ingredients
4 (6 ounce) salmon filets

3 tablespoons spicy brown mustard

1 1/2 tablespoons honey

1/2 tablespoon lemon juice

1/2 cup olive oil

1/4 cup maple syrup

1 tablespoon apple cider vinegar

6 cloves garlic, minced

1/4 teaspoon salt

1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper

1 head broccoli, separated into florets

16 ounces Brussels sprouts, halved

4 cups cooked quinoa

4 ounces feta cheese, crumbled

1/2 cup dried cranberries

1/3 cup chopped pistachios

Local Offers

Change
Oops! We cannot find any ingredients on sale near you. Do we have the correct zip code?
Directions
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C). Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.

In a small bowl combine mustard, honey, and lemon juice; set aside.

Combine olive oil, maple syrup, apple cider vinegar, garlic, salt, and pepper in a large bowl. Add in broccoli and Brussels sprouts; toss until coated. Spread evenly onto the prepared sheet pan.

Roast in the preheated oven for 20 minutes. Remove pan from oven, toss vegetables, and spread out again. Place salmon filets onto sheet pan with vegetables, skin side down. Brush salmon with mustard mixture

Return to the oven; roast until fish flakes easily with a fork, 12 to 15 minutes.

Place 1 cup quinoa and a salmon filet in each serving bowl. Evenly divide vegetables into bowls and top with feta cheese, cranberries, and pistachios.

Nutrition Facts (per serving)
1175
Calories
64g
Fat
97g
Carbs
58g
Protein

This marry me gnocchi has the bacon, sun-dried tomatoes, and creamy sauce of marry me chicken, but as a tasty side dish.
Prep Time:
10 mins
Cook Time:
20 mins
Total Time:
30 mins
Servings:
6

Ingredients
1/2 pound bacon

1 (16 ounce) package gnocchi

3 cloves garlic, minced

1/2 cup chicken broth

1/4 cup heavy cream

1/2 cup freshly shaved Parmesan cheese

1/4 cup sun dried tomatoes

1/2 teaspoon Italian seasoning

1 pinch crushed red pepper flakes

Local Offers

Change
Oops! We cannot find any ingredients on sale near you. Do we have the correct zip code?
Directions
Place a heavy skillet on the stove; lay bacon slices flat in the cold pan, without overlapping. Turn the stove to medium heat.

After 5 to 7 minutes, the bacon should start to curl and brown. Use tongs to flip each slice over. Cook the other side until as crisp as you like, 5 to 7 minutes more. Remove bacon from the pan; place it on a plate lined with paper towels to drain excess grease. Once cool enough to handle, roughly chop bacon.

Add gnocchi to the skillet. Do not stir. Cook for about 5 minutes. Add minced garlic. Sauté until fragrant, about 30 seconds.

Add chicken broth and slowly pour in cream; stir to combine. Add in Parmesan cheese. Stir to melt. Stir in bacon, sun dried tomatoes, Italian seasoning, and red pepper flakes.


Nutrition Facts (per serving)
407
Calories
20g
Fat
35g
Carbs
21g
Protein

Ingredients in Salisbury steak meatballs
Here’s what you need. Note: I’ve broken it up into groups so there are repeat ingredients, so it looks like more than you actually need!

Beef mince (ground beef) – Lean is fine here, though I generally just go standard beef because fat = flavour!

Alternatives: Chicken, pork, turkey or lamb should all work equally well here.

Panko breadcrumbs – Adds bulk and absorbs moisture so the mixture isn’t too wet to form meatballs.

Onion – A key flavour base in most of my savoury dishes! My secret for extra tasty, extra soft meatballs is to grate the onion over the breadcrumbs so it soaks up the juices. It softens the panko which makes the meatballs juicier and more tender. Plus, if you use diced onion you’d need to cook it separately beforehand. When it’s grated, there’s no need!

Panko breadcrumbs are easy to find these days in the Asian and breadcrumb aisle of grocery stores. Ordinary breadcrumbs (smaller and finer, like sand) can also be used but the meatballs will not be quite as tender.

Worcestershire sauce – The sauce auto-correct has to fix for me, every single time! For savoury flavour.

Beef bouillon cubes or powder – Better than salt! Use powder or crumble a cube. (Tip for Aussies – Oxo brand crumbles easily, other brands are a bit hard).

Ketchup – Adds a touch of sweetness as well as flavour.

Dijon mustard – For flavour. Substitute with any other plain smooth mustard, though not hot English (too spicy!) or wholegrain.

Egg – Holds the meatballs together.

Olive oil AND butter – Oil for browning the meatballs, then butter for flavour when sautéing the mushrooms. We can’t use butter to brown the meatballs as it will burn.

Mushrooms – Just ordinary white mushrooms. If yours are very big – or you’re using big mushrooms like portobello or BBQ/flat mushrooms – just cut the slices into smaller pieces.

Garlic – For flavour. Hard to find a mushroom recipe on my website without garlic in it!

For the gravy
This recipe uses a simple, lump-free technique for making gravy where we make a slurry by mixing the flour with a little water. Then just pour that into the beef stock and watch as the gravy magically thickens!

Beef stock gives the gravy the lovely deep brown colour. My recipes are written for low-sodium beef stock and homemade beef stock. So if you have full-salt beef stock, just reduce the salt then add it at the end only if required.

Flour – To thicken the gravy.

Dijon mustard – Used to add flavour to the gravy. As above with the meatball mixture, substitute with any other smooth mustard (avoid hot English mustard!).

How to make Salisbury steak meatballs
In summary:

Mix salisbury meatball ingredients then roll balls.

Sear meatballs, remove, sauté mushrooms, then add gravy ingredients.

Return meatballs into the gravy then finish cooking by simmering in the gravy so they absorb the tasty gravy flavour, and the meatball juices add flavour into the gravy. Win, win!

1. Salisbury meatball mixture

Grate onion over panko breadcrumbs – My secret trick for extra soft, extra tasty meatballs! (Dubious? Read the glowing reviews in Italian Meatballs!). Put the panko breadcrumbs in the bowl first then grate the onion using a box grater straight onto it. The juices will soak into the breadcrumbs, which makes the meatballs softer. Plus, because the onion is grated rather than chopped, there’s no need to sauté the onion separate!

Meatball mixture – Add all remaining meatball ingredients.

Mix with your hands. Nothing beats using your hands. Get right in there to mix it up well!

Ready to roll – At first, the beef mince will be kind of crumbly and you’ll have streaks of the mustard etc throughout. But keep mixing with your hands – it only takes around a minute – until all the ingredients are mixed through it and it becomes sticky, almost like dough.

Now, it’s pretty well known throughout my team that I don’t have the patience for meatball rolling. Love eating ’em, but hate rolling ’em. So here’s the fastest way I’ve figured out (so far) for how to roll reasonably evenly sized meat balls.
Scoop up the mixture (tightly packed) using an ice cream scoop with a lever, then dollop the lumps on a tray or board. Continue until all the mixture is used.

Roll balls – Once you have the right number of meat mounds and they are (roughly) the same size, roll them into balls. Roll fairly firmly so the balls will not fall apart when you are cooking them.

Sear meatballs, just until nicely browned on the outside. They can (should!) still be raw inside. We will finish cooking them in the gravy (maximum flavour, ultra tender balls!).

Remove the meatballs on a plate and set aside while we make the mushroom gravy in the same skillet.

How to make the mushroom gravy
And here’s how we make the mushroom gravy.

Sauté mushrooms in the butter until softened. Add the garlic towards the end else it will burn before the mushrooms are ready.

Add beef stock into the mushrooms.

Gravy thickener (slurry) – In a small bowl, mix the flour with 2 tablespoons of water, the Worcestershire sauce and Dijon Mustard until it’s lump free (this is a slurry).

Add slurry into gravy – Then pour the slurry straight into the beef stock, stir it in (it will go cloudy). In the next steps as the liquid simmers, the gravy will magically thicken as the liquid heats up (photos below)!

This method of using a slurry is a handy way to make lump-free gravy. The usual method would call for adding flour into the cooked mushrooms, then adding the stock and stirring to dissolve the flour in. For this recipe, the gravy was a bit lumpy because of the volume of mushrooms we’re using. And it was difficult to remove the lumps, even using a whisk. So I chose to use this slurry method instead.

This slurry method is actually a variation of a classic French cooking technique to thicken sauces, soups and stews called beurre manié. I use it in traditional French dishes such as Coq au Vin and Beef Bourguignon.

Return meatballs into the gravy then leave to simmer for 5 minutes until the gravy thickens.

Serve! Serve Salisbury steak meatballs and mushroom gravy over mashed potato (or low-carb cauliflower mash), pasta or rice!

Leftovers will keep for 4 days in the fridge. Actually, like with stews, the flavour of the gravy improves with time. It also freezes perfectly, fully cooked, which is handy to know.

And lastly, in case you’re worried you won’t be able to sleep tonight until you know, the other 2 meatball recipes (currently) in my top 3 are:

Italian Meatballs – this will never budge from the #1 spot); and

Swedish Meatballs, Vietnamese Bun Cha meatballs, Baked pork meatballs and Moroccan meatballs (equal 3rd place). Don’t make me choose!

Poached Salmon made exotic with a simple, amazing Coconut Lime Sauce!! Tastes like a Thai coconut curry sauce – but it’s quick and easy. The trick is to caramelise garlic, ginger and lemongrass with a smidge of sugar before adding the coconut milk. It’s incredible what a difference it makes!

Poached Salmon
Poached fish has a bad reputation. The mere mention of it conjures up visions of pale, overcooked, flavourless fish swimming in murky water.

How to poach salmon
The “normal” way to poach salmon involves bringing a pot of water to the boil with some basic aromatics like lemon and sprigs of herbs, then the salmon is gently simmered until it’s cooked.

This isn’t my favourite way to cook salmon. I miss the flavour you get from searing.

So my method of making poached salmon involves lightly searing first THEN poaching in the same skillet.

Coconut Curry Sauce – real easy!
Looks like Thai Red Curry, tastes like Thai Red Curry…..

Sure, it doesn’t have quite the same depth of flavour – but it requires a fraction of the time and ingredients. I think even those with sophisticated South East Asian palettes will still be mighty impressed with the flavour of we manage to get in this so quickly and with so few ingredients!

Here’s what goes in the coconut curry sauce – and it’s all things you can pick up at supermarkets.

The one thing that some supermarkets may not carry is Chilli Garlic Sauce which, as the name suggests, is a spicy garlicky paste. But don’t worry if you can’t find it – just sub with any chilli paste, even if it’s not Asian (eg Franks), OR use a chilli sauce like Sriracha.

Caramelisation makes all the difference!
If you’re looking at the ingredients suspiciously, thinking surely she’s exaggerating, how on earth can so few ingredients make a coconut curry sauce that tastes like Thai Red Curry? I don’t blame you. I’ll be honest – I’ve tried a few simple Coconut sauces before and been disappointed.

So here are the 2 key things in this recipe that add depth of flavour into this otherwise simple sauce:

Sear the salmon first. Just lightly – to add colour and flavour to the salmon as well as leaving behind tasty brown bits in the skillet (it’s called fond!) that adds flavour into the sauce. This is a cooking fundamental – never waste those precious golden bits from searing things!

Caramelise the aromatics (garlic, ginger, lemongrass) with a touch of sugar. It’s amazing how much more flavour that adds to an otherwise simple sauce!

What to serve with poached salmon
There’s enough sauce to serve this over jasmine rice or any rice you prefer, or with noodles (pictured). I’ve used vermicelli noodles here because they’re quick to prepare – just soak in boiling water for a few minutes,

Add a side of steamed Asian greens and voila! A healthy, Omega 3 rich dinner on the table in 20 minutes!!! – Nagi x

PS If you’re wondering if salmon is good for you, the answer is yes, we should all eat more of it! It’s rich in protein and Omega 3 fatty acids which do all sorts of good things for you – brain, joints and heart. So don’t shy away from salmon because you think it’s too fatty or too high in calories – it’s good fat.

MORE QUICK & EASY SALMON RECIPES
Christmas Baked Salmon: Easy & Make-ahead – Dead-easy, eye-catching centrepiece!

Honey Lemon Glazed Salmon

Sesame Crusted Salmon (that crust!)

Honey Garlic Salmon (super quick)

Asian Salmon Salad

Salmon Cakes (they’re baked!)

Salmon with Creamy Garlic & Herb Sauce

Garlic Butter Salmon

And if you love coconut milk sauces, you’ll love these!
Easy Coconut Curry

An amazing easy Thai Coconut Noodle Soup

Coconut Pot Roasted Chicken

Coconut Marinated Chicken

Thai Coconut Chicken

Thai Green Curry and Red Curry

How to make roasted pumpkin so much more fabulous with very little effort? A dash of maple syrup for extra caramelisation. Kick of fresh chilli. Plus a sprinkle of feta and shower of walnuts! Serve as a side, a meal, pile on toast or crostini. It’s delicious any which way!

Maple roasted pumpkin with feta and chilli
Something magical happens to pumpkin when you roast it. It intensifies the sweetness and caramelises beautifully.

I’d happily eat it plain. But here, we step it up a notch with a few simple additions that work so well with pumpkin. A dash of maple syrup for extra caramelisation. Plus a hit of fresh chilli, soft nutty crunchy of walnuts and creamy pops of salty feta…..you know this is going to be good!

Ingredient you need
Here’s what you need to make this.

The roasting stuff

Pumpkin – Any eating pumpkin. I typically use Kent or Jap which are common varieties here in Australia. Do not use pumpkin intended for Halloween carving, it’s not very pleasant to eat.

Alternatives – Butternut pumpkin (called butternut squash in the States) or sweet potato!

Maple syrup – or honey.

Dried chilli flakes – also called red pepper flakes. I use the regular type you get from ordinary grocery stores but you could absolutely use Asian or other types of chilli flakes. Just be mindful of spiciness!

Red onion – substitute regular onion, eschalots (US: shallots) or the white part of green onions (I often have bunches in the fridge with the green parts unceremoniously hacked off for garnish purposes so am always looking for uses of the white part).

Walnuts – Or other nuts of choice. Almonds and pecans come to mind first. Pinenuts, pepitas and other small nuts/seeds would also work but I’d toss them in partway through cooking so they don’t burn into tiny little black (bitter) pellets.

Finishes

Chilli – This is optional because it’s more for visual than spiciness, because we get enough spiciness from the dried chilli flakes. Large chillis, like the cayenne pepper pictured, aren’t very spicy. Good life rule to remember: the larger the chilli, the less spicy it is!

Danish feta – This is the feta type that is a bit more creamy than Greek feta. Greek feta also works, though I do like the way Danish feta sort of smears as it semi-melts on contact with the hot pumpkin.

If you are making to really impress, go premium by using goats cheese!

Parsley – For pretty green finish.

How to make Maple Roasted Pumpkin with Chilli and Feta
This is a recipe that’s more about the finishes. The pumpkin is roasted with onion and walnuts, all tossed with maple syrup. Then once cooked, sprinkle with feta, red chilli and parsley. Then get stuck in!

Cut the pumpkin in 2.5cm / 1″ cubes. To do this I cut into 2.5cm / 1″ slices first. Using a rocking motion as you slice down helps make this easy.

Cut the skin off.

Then cut into cubes.

Pile onto a large paper lined tray with the onion slices and walnuts. Toss with olive oil, maple syrup, salt and chilli flakes then spread it out. The more space between the pumpkin, the better. If the pumpkin is too cluttered, it will stew and go mushy instead of caramelising.

Roast for 30 minutes, tossing once at the 20 minute mark, until the pumpkin is light golden and cooked through. You won’t get intense golden colour on the surface, not like plain roast pumpkin cubes (such as in this recipe), because the maple syrup will burn on the edges of the cubes before the surface goes completely golden.

Also, the onion will get quite dark brown. If you notice at the tossing point that it’s getting a little too brown, just push/pile them all together or bury under pumpkin. This will protect them!

Finishing – Give the pumpkin a gently toss to coat it in all the tasty tray juices. Then transfer to a serving platter – single layer is nice for even sprinkling coverage and neat presentation. Sprinkle with fresh chilli, feta and parsley, then serve!

Or – jumble and pile
I know I said a single layer presentation looks nice and neat. But actually, for maximum flavour-melding-more-rustic presentation (aka Nagi style), do most of the sprinkling on the tray, reserving some for garnish. Then transfer into a serving bowl. Flavour jumbling will occur during transfer and piling.

Finish with reserved feta etc to pretty it up.

Whichever way you go, single layer neatness or jumbled piled up rustic-ness, it still rates the same on the deliciousness scale. Which is, in case you hadn’t guessed, very, very high.

Tell me if you serve this as a side or inhale it as a meal! – Nagi x

PS In case you didn’t know I have a whole category of pumpkin side dishes as part of the vegetable and salad side dishes corner of this website! Mostly relatively low effort, like this one, with a scattering of show-offs for special occasions.

PPS This is not the first time I’ve combined pumpkin. See also here and here.

Steak Fried Rice is a bit special because it’s rare to see fried rice made with chunks of beef! With marinated, tenderised beef pieces “sizzled” until golden, this is an excellent recipe to make with economical cuts like sizzle steak, minute steak, and pre-cut stir fry strips.

“Sizzling Beef” Steak Fried Rice
This is not the first time I’ve done a beef fried rice. But it’s the first time I’ve shared any rice dish with steak pieces rather than mince (ground beef) jumbled throughout the rice. In fact, it might be the first time I’ve ever eaten a fried rice with pieces of beef in it!

Mind you, I’m not claiming this as an original invention. I’m just saying it’s different from the usual fried rice made with chicken or prawns/shrimp. It’s a bit special. And it is really tasty. It scored highly with the team at RecipeTin Meals, regular recipients of my trials (and errors) in the kitchen. Those tasty little marinated bits of beef “sizzled” until caramelised really makes it!

Keeping little bits of steak tender
Little bits of steak overcook in a flash – as in, less than 90 seconds. So the only way to make this truly enjoyable so we bite into beef that’s caramelised on the surface but tender inside is to marinate and tenderise it. Otherwise, it’s dry cardboard for dinner tonight!!

While marinating adds flavor, regular marinades won’t keep the beef soft. To achieve that velvety texture you get in Chinese restaurant beef stir fries, we need to velvet the beef.

There’s various ways to do it, but the method I find the easiest for home cooking is to use baking soda (bi-carbonate soda), a tried-and-true technique I’ve shared that many readers love! It’s easy, cheap, and if you’ve never done it before, it’s a game-changer.

Read more about it here – How to Velvet Beef for Stir Fries.

Ingredients for Sizzling Beef Fried Rice
Here’s what you need for this fried rice. This dish is Thai flavoured, using fish sauce and oyster sauce as shortcut flavour bumps like in classic Thai Fried Rice.

Beef and marinade

Beef – I like to use rump steak (US: top sirloin) because it’s easy to cut into small rectangles that I want for this recipe so you get nice little bites, it’s got good beef flavour and texture for a dish like this. There’s no need to splurge on expensive beef, the marinade does wonders tenderising.

Porterhouse/sirloin (called New York Strip in the US, among other names) is similar but it’s a little pricier so I tend to stick with rump.

For other beef cuts – see box below. And yes, you can use chicken! See FAQ.

Baking soda (bi-carbonate soda) – The magic ingredient to “velvet” the beef which keeps it nice and tender, fast becoming the world’s worst kept Chinese restaurant secret! Without, the small thin bites of beef would overcook and dry in 90 seconds. We only use a tiny amount so you can’t taste it. See Velveting Beef recipe for more information on this technique.

Dark soy sauce – stains the beef a rich mahogany colour and adds soy flavour. Substitute with light or all-purpose soy sauce, though the flavour and colour is not as intense.

Oyster sauce – shortcut sauce for instant flavour, adding savoury, sweetness and thickens the sauce. Substitute with vegetarian oyster sauce (for shell-fish free, available in Asian and large grocery stores these days) or Hoisin sauce (alters flavour but plays similar role).

Water – To thin the marinade enough to coat all the beef, and also to dilute the marinade a bit (I found the beef too salty in first iterations of this recipe).

Garlic – Like bacon, it just makes everything better!

Sugar – Just a smidge, for flavour and wonderful caramelisation. White or brown is fine.

Other beef cuts and marinating time
This recipe is an excellent one to use for just about any cut of beef because the tenderising marinade will transform even the most economical cuts into soft, velvety, flavour infused beef bites. Here’s a list of other common cuts that can be used, and the recommended marinating time.

Other steaks – Sirloin/porterhouse (New York strip), t-bone, flank, skirt, hanger, bavette – excellent! 1 hour marinade.

Pricey steaks: Scotch (rib-eye) and tenderloin – pricier, so seems to be a waste to use it in a recipe like this, but it absolutely works. 1 hour marinade.

Thin and cheap sizzle steak / minute steak / schnitzel – excellent! Marinade for 4 hours minimum.

Pre-cut “beef stir fry strips”, round steak – 4 hour marinade.

Slow cooking cuts like chuck, brisket, oyster blade, beef short rib (boneless) – marinade 24 hours, be sure to slice thin. The texture of tenderised slow cooking cuts of beef is not quite the same as steak cuts, but it is still soft and tender, many of them have excellent beefy flavour (like short rib) and I would not hesitate to use any of them if that’s all I had!

DAY-OLD COLD RICE
You will need 4 cups of day-old cooked rice. You’ll need 1 1/2 cups of uncooked rice (1 cup uncooked rice = 3 cups cooked). I use long-grain rice.

Beef fried rice sauce
Here are the ingredients for the sauce. Only three – because the fish sauce and oyster sauce are full flavoured, plus we get flavour in the rice from the beef too!.

Fish sauce – Has more depth of flavour than soy sauce, but can be substituted with regular or light soy sauce. Doesn’t taste fishy once cooked!

Oyster sauce – See above beef marinade for description and substitutions.

Sugar – To balance the flavour of the saltiness you get from the fish sauce. Any type of sugar is fine here.

💡This fried rice sauce is intentionally more bold flavoured than a typical Chinese Fried Rice because I think it suits the beef better as beef has a stronger flavour than chicken and prawns/shrimp which are the usual proteins used in fried rice.

THE ADD-INS
I used green onion and green beans because I was deliberately going for a green-add-ins fried rice in this recipe. Just to do something different from the typical kaleidoscope of colours you see in fried rice (carrots, corn, peas!). So feel free to substitute the green beans for other vegetables, and the green onion for a regular onion.

How to make Beef Fried Rice
The beef needs 1 hour minimum to marinate but you can leave it overnight. Note: some alternative cuts of beef suggested need a minimum of 4 hours marinating time (ie slow cooking cuts and some of the more economical cuts). See the beef section above or recipe notes for marinating times.

1. MARINATING THE BEEF

Cut the beef into 1.5cm / 0.6″ strips

Small squares – Then cut those strips into square(ish) pieces about 3-5mm / 0.2″ thick, so you have lots of thin square(ish) bits of beef.

Mix the beef marinade ingredients in a bowl.

Marinade – Then add the beef and toss to coat. Marinade for 1 hour minimum, up to 24 hours. I find the extra time doesn’t add anything, it doesn’t make the beef any more tender nor does it add more flavour because the pieces are so thin, the flavour fully penetrates in an hour.

Remember – If you are not using rump / top sirloin, check the recommended marinating time. See Note 1 of the recipe card or the blue box above in the beef section.

2. PREPARING OTHER INGREDIENTS

Green onion – Cut it into 1.5cm / 0.2″ lengths and separate the firmer white parts from the green parts. We add them into the pan at different times as the white part takes much longer to cook than the green part.

Fried rice sauce – Put the ingredients in a small bowl and mix.

Cutting green beans – Trim the green beans then cut into 1.25cm / 1/2″ pieces.

Scrambled egg – Whisk the ingredients then set aside.

OK! Prep done, the cook part is nice and quick. Just wait until that beef hits the pan, it smells soooo good!

3. COOKING THE FRIED RICE IS FAST!
This fried rice is cooked in a large pan instead of a wok because it’s a big-batch of fried rice (enough to serve 4 as a meal) that is too much to fit in a wok. If you try to cook this in a wok, the rice and beef will just “stew” and get sweaty instead of caramelised and toasty.

Large pan – Heat 2 tablespoons of the oil in a large non-stick pan over high heat. Mine is 30cm / 12″ wide, and is one of the most frequently used cookware in my kitchen (it’s a Pyrolux, no that is not an affiliate link, and sadly not very available outside of the Australia).

Caramelised beef – Add the beef and cook until the surface seals, about 1 1/2 minutes. Then add the white part of the green onion and beans and cook for about 1 minute until the beef is caramelised. Add the garlic just before the end (if you add it earlier, it will burn).

Rice and sauce – Add the rice then pour the sauce over. Toss for about 1 1/2 minutes to disperse the sauce through the rice and give it a chance to get nice and toasty.

Clear space in the pan for the egg. This is actually the traditional way egg is cooked for fried rice in Thailand, so it’s not just me being lazy! 

Scramble egg – Add and swirl 1/2 tablespoon of oil in the cleared space. It will heat almost instantly. Then pour the egg in and once it sets a bit, lazily scrape and swirl through it to scramble the egg.

Don’t worry if some of it gets stuck (like mine does), just scrape it off and enjoy crispy little egg bits in your rice!

Finish and serve – As soon as the egg is almost cooked, toss it through the rice with the green part of the green onion, which wilts very quickly. Then transferring into a serving bowl or divide between bowls, and get stuck into it!

Serving as a meal
I want to tell you that this can be dinner by itself. But to me, it’s too light on the vegetables to be considered a completely meal. My mother did such a good job of brain washing me as a kid!

For a quick option, just add wedges of tomato and hunks of cucumber on the side, no dressing required. Before you dismiss that as boring, it’s not! This fried rice is quite full flavoured so the freshness of plain vegetables is welcome. Also, it’s legit Thai street food style! Plain tomato and cucumbers is a common addition to plates of noodles and rice in Thailand, and as noted above the sauce used in today’s recipe is from my Thai Fried Rice.

However, if you want something a little more interesting (and I get it), here are a few simple Asian salads that you could add on the side:

The Spicy Asian Zucchini gets a special mention – such a delicious way to get a massive vegetable fix – and the Asian Slaw is a personal favourite as it’s a great standby to have in the fridge. If you’re really pressed for time, just buy a pre-cut slaw mix then toss with the dressing in the Asian Slaw recipe.

Or – by pass all that and just enjoy a big steamy bowl of the fried rice for dinner. Those juicy beef bits are the best! Try to resist picking out more than your fair sharing and sneaking it into your bowl.

There are a few impostors out there that claim to be Long Island Iced Teas. In actuality, there is only one correct way to make a LIIT... and this is it!

One thing must be cleared up about the Long Island Iced Tea straight away: It is living a lie. For starters, it's not entirely clear that it's actually from Long Island. That's debatable. But, folks, it is most assuredly not tea. You will not find a drop of tea in this cocktail. But don't hold that against it. Read on to learn how to make this 5-star recipe for Long Island Iced Tea.

To make a chunky bread, fold in 2 1/2 cups toasted sunflower seeds, 5 cups soaked and drained dried currants or 6 cups walnut halves in Step 3, after folding in the salt water.

Ingredients
Pre-ferment

250 grams warm water (1 cup plus 2 tablespoons)

1/4 teaspoon dry granulated yeast

300 grams organic all-purpose flour (2 1/2 cups)

Bread Dough

1.25 kilograms warm water (5 1/2 cups)

1.8 kilograms organic all-purpose flour (13 3/4 cups)

200 grams organic whole wheat flour (1 1/2 cups)

5 tablespoons kosher salt dissolved in 1/2 cup of warm water

White rice flour or all-purpose flour, for dusting

Local Offers

Change
Oops! We cannot find any ingredients on sale near you. Do we have the correct zip code?
Directions
In a medium bowl, mix the water with the yeast and stir until the yeast is dissolved. Stir in the flour. Cover loosely with plastic wrap and let rise at room temperature for 10 to 14 hours.

In a bowl, combine the warm water with the pre- ferment: Using your hands, break up the pre-ferment until dissolved. In a very large bowl, whisk the all-purpose flour with the whole wheat flour. Using your hands, mix the dissolved pre-ferment into the flours, until a smooth dough forms. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let stand for 30 minutes.

Uncover the dough and add the salt water. Gently fold the dough over onto itself until the salt water is thoroughly incorporated. Loosely cover the dough and let rest for 1 hour; every 20 minutes, gently fold the dough up and over onto itself 4 times. Cover the dough and let stand for 3 to 4 hours.

Turn the dough out onto a floured work surface and cut it in half. Using a bench scraper and floured hands, gently shape the dough into 2 rounds, folding the dough under itself as necessary. Let the loaves stand on the work surface for 20 minutes and then gently fold the sides under again.

Line 2 large bowls with kitchen towels and generously dust the towels with rice flour. Transfer the loaves to the bowls, rounded sides down. Cover the loaves with clean towels and let rise for 4 to 5 hours. Alternatively, let the dough rise for 1 hour at room temperature, then refrigerate the loaves overnight. Let the dough come to room temperature before baking.

Preheat the oven to 490°. Heat 2 large enameled cast-iron casseroles or cast-iron skillets with lids for 30 minutes. Remove from the oven and dust the bottoms with rice flour. Turn the loaves into the casseroles, rounded side up, and score the tops with a sharp, thin knife. Cover the casseroles and bake the bread for 15 minutes. Reduce the oven temperature to 470° and bake for 20 minutes. Uncover and bake the loaves for 25 minutes or until the bread is richly browned. Transfer the bread to a rack; let cool before slicing.

Inspired by Hollywood bakery Bub and Grandma’s milk bread, which uses three types of dairy in the loaves they supply to Konbi, the Food & Wine Test Kitchen created this pull-apart version fit for a holiday spread.

Ingredients
4 3/4 cups bread flour (about 20 1/4 ounces), plus more for dusting

1/3 cup granulated sugar

2 1/4 teaspoons fine sea salt

2 (1/4-ounce) envelopes quick-rising yeast

1 cup whole milk

2/3 cup heavy cream

7 tablespoons powdered milk

1 large egg

Cooking spray

1/4 cup unsalted butter, melted, divided, plus more for brushing

Flaky sea salt, for garnish

Local Offers

Change
Oops! We cannot find any ingredients on sale near you. Do we have the correct zip code?
Directions
Combine flour, sugar, salt, and yeast in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment. Whisk together milk, cream, and powdered milk in a medium bowl. Whisk in egg.

Add milk mixture to flour mixture. Beat on medium-low speed until combined, about 2 minutes.

Fit mixer with the dough hook attachment. Beat on medium speed until dough is smooth, about 10 minutes. (Pull up a section of dough, and stretch as thin as possible. If dough is see-through but does not rip, your dough is complete. If it rips, continue beating until dough can be stretched.)

Lightly grease a large bowl with cooking spray, and place dough in greased bowl, turning to coat. Cover with plastic wrap, and let rise until almost doubled in size, about 1 hour and 30 minutes.

Transfer dough to a work surface; cut into thirds. Flatten each piece, and tightly roll into tubes. Place tubes, seam sides down, on work surface; cover with lightly greased plastic wrap. Let rest 15 minutes.

Working with 1 dough piece at a time, roll into a 20- x 12-inch rectangle on a lightly floured surface. Brush with a scant 1 1/2 tablespoons melted butter; cut lengthwise into four strips, and cut strips crosswise into six strips each, making 24 rectangles. Stack all 24 dough rectangles. Repeat with remaining two dough pieces and remaining melted butter. Arrange stacks in a lightly greased tube pan, standing up like little books, allowing gaps between dough pieces.

Cover pan with lightly greased plastic wrap, and let stand in a warm place (80°F), free from drafts, until dough just reaches top edges of pan, about 1 hour. Preheat oven to 325°F.

Remove plastic wrap, and bake in preheated oven until bread is golden brown and puffed, 35 to 40 minutes. Transfer to a wire rack, and let stand in pan 5 minutes. Remove from pan, and place on a platter. Brush with melted butter, and sprinkle with flaky sea salt.

To serve
Slather it with cranberry sauce (or, like us, Cranberry Kosho), dip it in gravy, and save any leftovers for French toast the morning after.

Bake chicken breasts, burst cherry tomatoes, and salty feta on a single sheet tray for a hassle-free, flavorful meal.

One-pan meals are the ultimate weeknight dinner solution when you’re short on time, but still want something substantial. Here, boneless skinless chicken breasts are coated in a tangy marinade made from pantry staples like balsamic vinegar and honey for a hint of sweetness which forms a glaze when baked. 

To allow the tomatoes to keep a bit of their shape, the cherry tomatoes are spread across the sheet pan in the final minutes of baking until they just barely burst and release their juices. When paired with a block of salty, briny feta, the pan drippings from the chicken and burst tomatoes form a light sauce you can spoon over pasta or eat with crusty bread. 

Frequently Asked Questions
Is feta goat cheese?
Though they have a similar mouthfeel, feta is not goat cheese. Feta is a Greek cheese made primarily from sheep's milk, but it can also be made with cow's or goat's milk or a combination of milk types, whereas goat cheese is made entirely from goat's milk.

How long do you cook chicken breast in an oven?
Chicken breasts can take anywhere between 15 to 25 minutes to bake, depending on the size of the breast and the temperature of the oven. Use an instant-read thermometer inserted into the thickest part of the breast to ensure it is fully cooked but not overcooked. 

Notes from the Food & Wine Test Kitchen
Adding the tomatoes part way through cooking helps prevent them from overcooking and completely falling apart. They should be just burst open, slightly wrinkled, but still holding their shape.

Make ahead
Store any leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to three days.

Ingredients
1/4 cup balsamic vinegar

2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil

2 tablespoons honey

1 tablespoon Dijon mustard

1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt

1/2 teaspoon garlic powder

1/2 teaspoon dried oregano

1/2 teaspoon black pepper, plus more for garnish

4 small (6- to 8-ounces each) boneless, skinless chicken breasts, patted dry

1 large red onion, peeled and cut into 1-inch wedges

4 cups cherry or grape tomatoes

8 ounces feta cheese packed in brine

Chopped fresh basil leaves, for garnish

Local Offers

Change
Oops! We cannot find any ingredients on sale near you. Do we have the correct zip code?
Directions
Preheat oven to to 425°F. Whisk together vinegar, olive oil, honey, mustard, salt, garlic powder, oregano, and pepper in a medium bowl until well combined. Add chicken breasts and turn to coat. Transfer chicken breasts to a large rimmed baking sheet. Add onion to bowl and toss gently to coat. Arrange onions on baking sheet around chicken. Add tomatoes to bowl, toss to coat, and set aside.

Pat feta dry and carefully slice crosswise into four thinner slabs; pat dry again. Nestle feta between chicken and onions on baking sheet.

Bake in preheated oven for 10 minutes. Add reserved tomatoes to baking sheet, filling in any empty gaps. Drizzle any remaining vinegar mixture in bowl over baking sheet. Return to oven and continue baking until tomatoes have just burst and a thermometer inserted into thickest part of chicken registers 160°F, 10 to 15 minutes more. Garnish with fresh basil and black pepper and serve hot.

These classic potato chips can easily be made at home.

Ingredients
5 Idaho baking potatoes (peeled)

Kosher salt

Vegetable oil (for frying)

Directions
Using a mandoline, slice the potatoes 1/16 inch thick. Rinse the slices under cold water and put them in a large bowl with 2 tablespoons of salt. Add cold water to cover and let stand for 1 hour.

Drain the potatoes and return them to the bowl. Add water to cover and let soak for 1 more hour. Drain and pat dry.

In a large pot, heat 2 inches of oil to 350° over moderately high heat. Working in small batches, fry the potato chips, stirring a few times, until golden, about 4 minutes. Using a slotted spoon, transfer the potato chips to paper towels to drain. Sprinkle with salt and serve.

This sweet and spicy salsa gets its punch from a combination of grilled pineapple, red onion, and habaneros.

This sweet and spicy salsa gets its punch from a combination of grilled pineapple, red onion, and habaneros.

Ingredients
3 garlic cloves, peeled

1 medium-size red onion, finely chopped (about 1 1/2 cups)

1 medium (about 3-pound) pineapple, peeled, cored, and cut into 3/4-inch-thick slices

2 fresh habanero chiles, stemmed

2 tablespoons fresh lime juice

1 teaspoon fine sea salt, plus more to taste

1/4 cup olive oil

1/2 cup finely chopped fresh parsley

Directions
Preheat grill to high (450°F to 500°F). Place garlic cloves and onion on 2 separate pieces of aluminum foil; fold each to create sealed packets. Place packets directly on grill grate; cook, uncovered, turning occasionally, until garlic and onion have softened, about 15 minutes.

Meanwhile, place pineapple slices and chiles on oiled grates. Grill, uncovered, until pineapple is well marked, flipping once, 3 to 5 minutes per side, and skin on chiles is evenly charred, flipping often, 5 to 6 minutes. Transfer to a cutting board, and let cool 5 minutes.

Chop pineapple into 1/4-inch pieces, and transfer to a large bowl. Stir in grilled onion and lime juice. Set aside.

Add salt and grilled garlic to a molcajete (see Note), and grind garlic to a smooth paste. Gradually add chiles and olive oil, grinding until mixture forms a mostly smooth paste.

Add chile paste to bowl with pineapple mixture. Stir in parsley, and season with additional salt to taste.

To make ahead
Salsa can be made up to 1 day in advance and stored in an airtight container in refrigerator.

Notes
If you don’t have a molcajete, finely chop garlic and chiles on a cutting board. Sprinkle with salt, and use the side of a chef’s knife to smash the mixture into a mostly smooth paste. Transfer to a small bowl, and slowly whisk in oil.