About Kate
My name is Kate McCulley and I travel the world for a living.

I’ve been shipwrecked in Indonesia. I’ve gone swimming in the frigid waters of Antarctica. I’ve partied with Ernest Hemingway lookalikes in Key West, cheered on the world air guitar champions in Finland, and danced until dawn with fire-throwing Vikings in the Shetland Islands. And I’ve traveled alone in places as far-flung as Lebanon, Colombia, and South Africa.

I’m a 40-year-old woman originally from the Boston area. After four years of establishing a career in online marketing and a lifetime dreaming of traveling the world, I decided that it was time to make it happen.

In September 2010, at the age of 26, I quit my job to travel Southeast Asia for six months. Six months turned into 13 years across 85 countries and 7 continents.

While in Southeast Asia, I worked on developing this site along with building a freelance work portfolio. After returning to the U.S. in May 2011, I realized that I was making almost enough money to support myself full-time. With a little ramping up, I wouldn’t have to go back to a conventional job. So I ramped it WAY up — and travel blogging has been my full-time job ever since.

In early 2016, I decided it was time to slow down and moved to New York City. I downsized my travels from 70% of the time to 25% of the time.

In 2017, Forbes named me one of the top 10 most influential travelers, and Irish America named me one of the top Irish American Business Leaders.

As fantastic as New York was, after four years, I was ready for a change. I left New York in late 2019 — but then COVID hit and put everything on hold.

Travel businesses around the world were decimated by COVID, mine included. I nearly lost everything I had built over the past decade. But I’ve taken this as an opportunity to pivot and create new kinds of content for you.

I also offer private blog consulting (all niches!) where I do a full audit of your blog and tell you exactly where you should be focusing, and one-on-one calls with readers where we can talk about anything you’d like for 45 minutes.
In 2020, I moved to Prague, starting a new chapter. I live here with my then-boyfriend Charlie and we adopted two cats, Lewis and Murray.

In 2021, I won Croatia’s Golden Pen Grand Prix, the top travel writing award in the country, for my coverage of Croatia travel during the pandemic.

In 2022, I started my new site: New Hampshire Way, a guide to New Hampshire travel.

In 2023, Charlie and I got married! We had three weddings and thus three honeymoons: a quick micro-moon in Karlovy Vary, Czech Republic; a long weekend in Ischia and Naples, Italy; and a monthlong trip through Chile and Argentina!

In 2024, I was named the TravMedia Awards Blogger of the Year, and I turned 40 in style in Croatia.

Still traveling? Hell yes. Traveling is one of the most important things in my life, even now.

Teaching Women to Travel Solo Safely
I believe that with the right research and preparation, a woman can safely travel on her own almost anywhere in the world. Teaching women how to travel solo is my passion; I see it as a vocation.

In many parts of the world, it’s common for women to travel solo and independently. In my home country, the United States, it’s far less common. There are many reasons for this, including a major political party seeking to consolidate power and erode women’s rights, and a 24/7 cable news environment that seeks to alarm rather than inform.

I started this blog to show women what it’s like to travel solo. There is a lot of fearmongering out there designed to scare women away from traveling on their own; I’m here to clear up the myths.

Are your parents insisting that you’ll be in danger? Chances are they’re not well informed about your destination. What about traveling to Mexico solo? Mexico is FAR safer than the news would have you think. But how will you stay safe?! These are the ten travel safety tips I follow everywhere in the world.

Ten years after I got on that plane to Bangkok, I’m still frequently traveling solo. While these days I travel quite a bit with friends, I almost always add on solo extensions to my trips and I continue taking whole trips on my own. I don’t travel solo because I have to — I do because I love it. So much freedom and endless possibilities.
I believe that it’s best to teach by example, and my ultimate goal is to show women that solo and independent travel can be safe, easy, and a lot of fun.

See all my solo female travel guides here.
My Travel Philosophy
I’m committed to environmentally, economically, and socially responsible travel. That means carbon offsetting my flights, eating locally, spending my money close to the ground, never photographing children, understanding cultural and historical context, and listening more than I talk, just to start.

Overtourism is one of my biggest travel concerns. I know that bloggers are responsible for driving more travelers to destinations struggling to handle their tourist levels, including Venice, Barcelona, and Bali. My aim is to keep you away from the worst crowds and steer you toward more peaceful destinations where locals will appreciate your visit.

There are some places I won’t visit due to ethics. I don’t think it’s possible to ethically visit Syria or North Korea at this time, though that may change in the future. And there’s a big difference between traveling independently and traveling as a guest of a tourism board, which is tantamount to working for a government — and the reason why I emphatically turned down an invitation to visit Saudi Arabia as the guest of the Saudi government in 2018.
One of my travel goals was to visit every region in Italy. Italy is my heart and my soul, and it’s my heritage, ever since my Sicilian great-grandfather stowed away on a ship to America at the age of 11. I spent a long time visiting each region of Italy, from Calabria to Valle d’Aosta, and achieved this goal with my arrival in Sardinia in 2022!

I’m very involved with politics. I volunteer, organize, protest, and write. While I’ve always held progressive political views, my travels continue to inform and shape my world view. My dream is for the United States to join the rest of the developed world and make universal healthcare a reality.

My three favorite regions to visit are the Balkans, Central America, and the Nordics. These three regions are so different, but they make me happy in different ways. The Balkans have a zany beauty to them, Central America pulsates with music and celebration, and the Nordics show how the world would be if we took proper care of our fellow humans.

I read constantly — more than a book a week. I’m committed to reading books by diverse authors and I review everything I read in my monthly recaps.
I consider myself primarily a mid-range traveler. I used to travel on a budget, though my definition of “on a budget” has evolved over the years. No more $3 Cambodian dorms for me — today I’m most likely to stay in an independent guesthouse or hotel. But I will occasionally splurge on something high-end for a special occasion.

I stand up for what I believe in, even when it’s uncomfortable. The travel blogging community may seem forward-thinking, but it’s rife with racism, sexism, and harm. I always speak up for those in need, and it’s won me a lot of enemies who would rather maintain their own power and comfort.

This blog is here to help — and entertain!
I’m committed to showing you how to find maximum value in your travels — where to splurge, how to save, and plenty of secrets I’ve picked up along the way. Oh, and funny travel stories, musings, and cool travel photos.

Like anyone else in the world, I have good times and bad times, but I promise to show you reality — with honesty and humor. In fact, the #1 comment I get from readers is, “You’re so honest.” I love that. It’s my mission to make sure you have the best trips ever — and that starts with telling the truth.

Choosing to live a life of travel is one of the best decisions I’ve ever made, and I’m glad you’ve come along for the ride.

Thanks for visiting!

Kate McCulley

Solo Female Travel Advice
For nearly a decade, I’ve been creating posts that show women how to travel the world safely. Here are some of the best posts:

Top 10 Travel Safety Tips for Women — The vast majority of staying safe while traveling is using common sense. These top 10 tips break down exactly what common sense means when you’re on the road. These tips work well all over the world.

Always Consider the Source — Required reading for any woman about to travel solo.

My Parents Don’t Want Me to Travel — What should you do when your parents are begging you not to go?

I Want to Travel, But My Boyfriend Doesn’t — You shouldn’t let your relationship keep you from achieving your dreams. If he’s worth it, he’ll understand.
How to Survive Pre-Trip Anxiety — It happens to all of us and it’s totally normal. Here’s how to go forward with your trip when you’re facing doubts.

The Solo Woman’s Guide to House Sitting While Traveling — How to house sit and get free accommodation in exchange for taking care of homes and pets — as a solo woman.

Why Travel Safety is Different for Women — This is one post to send to the men in your life so that they understand.
How to Travel Solo to a Party Destination — When everyone is partying up, what do you do?

Solo Female Travelers Over 40 — Come meet these inspirational women traveling solo after turning 40.

Five Strange and Unusual Benefits of Solo Travel — It’s not what you think!

The Secret to Solo Female Travel Confidence: Drink Champagne — This is how you become the most interesting woman in the room!

25 Things I Learned the Hard Way While Traveling — Required reading so that you don’t make the same mistakes!

Is it possible for a woman to travel the world and stay safe? Absolutely. Even if you steer clear of resorts. Even if you go to developing countries. Even if you don’t speak the local language. Even if you’re traveling alone. I’ve got travel safety tips to help you travel anywhere.

I created this site so I could help women travel safely and independently around the world. And after a decade (!) as a full-time travel blogger, it’s working — I get daily emails from women who have gone on their first backpacking trips, their first non-resort trips, their first solo trips, all because sites like mine gave them the confidence to do so. They survived, they thrived, and they had the time of their lives.

But the women who took these trips did so well in part because they prioritized their safety while traveling. What does that mean? Well, this list of travel safety tips for women will give you an idea!
Travel Safety Tips
The biggest part of traveling safely is using common sense. None of these travel safety tips are going to be revolutionary, but you can use them everywhere around the world.
Many of my own travel mistakes have been because I didn’t follow these simple tips.

I got pickpocketed in Buenos Aires (on my first day of solo travel EVER!) because I was using a large, open purse that didn’t close.

I had the worst train ride of my life in Bulgaria because I hadn’t done my research beforehand. All the guides said to take buses along that route, that they were faster and a million times nicer.

BUT sometimes you’re in a better position to travel safely if you follow these tips:

I survived having my wallet stolen in Sri Lanka because I had a backup ATM card in my main luggage that I used to get by financially before getting home.

I’ve never had my passport stolen while traveling because I always keep it locked up.
And sometimes it’s the opposite — it happens in spite of you taking precautions. I was shipwrecked in Indonesia after booking an overnight cruise that Lonely Planet called “one of the safer options.” (Later, they referred to a “well-documented March 2011 sinking.” That was me! I documented!)
Research Your Destination Thoroughly Before Your Trip
For many travelers, planning and researching is almost as fun as actually traveling! In between scoping out the most beautiful beaches and coolest cities, take some time to look up safety information for where you are headed.
Research Your Destination Thoroughly Before Your Trip
For many travelers, planning and researching is almost as fun as actually traveling! In between scoping out the most beautiful beaches and coolest cities, take some time to look up safety information for where you are headed.
How are you going to get around? What is public transportation like in your destination? Do you need to rent a car? Is it possible to travel safely at night?

Visit a travel clinic beforehand and talk to a doctor or nurse where you’re going. Do you need any vaccinations or prescriptions? Are there local health issues for which you should prepare?

When it comes to activities, especially adventure sports, what are the risks? If you injure yourself, will you be covered by your travel insurance?

I know a lot of people — I estimate upwards of 95% of them are male — who like to rock up to a destination with no preparation at all, just learning as they go. I disagree with this enormously. This is a good way to endanger yourself.

You need to do your research in advance, well before your trip begins.
Keep Your Valuables On You While in Transit
But you shouldn’t bring valuables in the first place!
True. You shouldn’t bring anything you would be despondent to lose: family heirlooms, expensive jewelry, your birth certificate, and the like.

Today people travel safely with an amount of technology that was unfathomable a decade ago. Most travelers bring a smartphone at the very least; many bring laptops, tablets, Kindles or other e-readers, DSLR cameras with pricey lenses, and more. When you consider the costs to replace any one of those items, they definitely count as valuables.
You should have a day bag into which you can fit all of your important items: your passport, your camera, your medication, your jewelry, your credit cards, your smartphone, and any other technology, photography or otherwise valuable equipment. Spend good money on this — this is one of my top travel safety tips.

Never put these items into your general backpack. Never put these items into the luggage hold on a bus. Never put any of those items into your checked luggage on a plane. If you let them out of your sight, there’s a fair chance that they could be taken away from you forever.
Only Take What You Need and Leave the Rest Locked Up
There’s no need to go out for a walk in the city with all of your credit cards, your passport, and the equivalent of $500 in cash. Take what you need for the day: maybe around $50, tops, and a backup debit card (don’t have one? Get one with Transferwise), and keep the rest locked up in your accommodation.
Almost every reputable hostel has lockers available for guests. Use them if they have them. In guesthouses, hotel rooms, or other places that don’t have a locker or safe for you, use a portable safe instead: a slashproof bag you fill with your valuables and lock to a pipe or something else sturdy in the room. Here’s a full review on the one I use and love. It’s an essential item to travel safely.

While it doesn’t eliminate the risk 100% (if a professional criminal is determined to rob you, he will rob you), most criminals are opportunistic. If you remove the opportunity, they’ll go after someone else who left his or her valuables out in the open, much more easily accessible to them.
Don’t Trust People Too Quickly
When you’re traveling in a new destination, and especially when you’re traveling on your own, it can be tempting to join up and find a tribe. Sometimes these tribes turn into lifelong friendships.
But they don’t always. Some con artists have mastered the art of befriending travelers, getting them to leave their valuables unattended, and robbing them before taking off.

When it comes to romance, you might want to crank up the speed when you meet someone outrageously sexy, but that’s not always the best idea. Sex is prevalent on the road, but be sure to protect yourself as much as possible.
Sometimes, we want to be part of a group so badly that we start trusting people before we should. Instead, err on the side of caution. If you’re just getting to know someone, don’t trust him or her to guard your expensive electronics while you’re in the bathroom.

It’s not rude to be cautious. Take things slowly, and if someone earns your trust, that’s when you depend on them.
Watch Your Drinking
This is a travel safety tip that doesn’t get said often enough. It’s applicable whether you’re at home or on the road. When you drink alcohol, you dull your senses and slow your reaction time, which in turn makes you vulnerable to others.
That doesn’t mean that you should avoid drinking altogether. Instead, drink slowly. Pace yourself. Eat beforehand or during. Have a glass of water in between each drink (your body will thank you in the morning). Be cognizant of what you are actually drinking, and always take drinks directly from the bartender. Constantly ask yourself, “Do I want to be less in control than I am right now?” and stop if the answer is no.

Most importantly, resist the pressure, gentle or otherwise, to keep up with others who might be able to drink more than you, especially in countries where it’s common to “shout” drinks for a group, like Britain and Ireland. If people are taking turns buying rounds for the whole table, say up front that you don’t plan on drinking as much as everyone else and they’ll understand.
Don’t think you need to go drink for drink with your companions, especially if they happen to be beefy rugby players from New Zealand. Or beefy frat boys from Oklahoma. Or Russians.
Blend in as Much as You Can
Want to have the attention of every pickpocket in Paris? Show up in shorts and a t-shirt. For extra credit, wear Birkenstocks. Or a sweatshirt with a university on it.
As normal as shorts and a t-shirt would be in North America, you would never see that style in most of Europe. Shorts are rare and Europeans in general dress much more neatly than North Americans, especially in France and Italy.

The more you stand out, the more you brand yourself as someone who is unfamiliar with the location, which makes you more vulnerable to criminal attention.

Instead, research your destination in advance, observe how people dress, and try to pass as a local – or, if that’s impossible (like if you’re in Thailand or Mexico and look neither Thai nor Mexican), try to pass as a longtime resident.

That means eschewing the backpacker trail uniform of drop-crotch hippie pants and souvenir beer t-shirts in favor of casual but neat and tidy clothing. That means covering your arms, legs, and cleavage in Muslim countries, wearing loose clothing in India, and wearing long pants in Europe and Latin America.

In tandem with blending in, it’s important to maintain confidence at all times, and even if you’re not confident, at least maintain the appearance of confidence.

When you’re walking down the street, hold your head up and your shoulders back. Look straight ahead and walk with a purpose. Pretend that you have somewhere important to be, and if you fall prey to street harassment, ignore it and keep moving.

If you become lost and you need to find your way, slip into a shop or café to consult your map privately before continuing on.
Spend Extra Money on Staying Safe
If you’re traveling long-term on a shoestring budget, it can be hard to justify spending extra cash when it could go toward so many more fun activities. But it’s a smart idea to financially invest in your own safety.
What does that mean?

It means that if your flight is scheduled to land in a rough city late at night, you should spend more money on a hotel that will pick you up right from the airport instead of taking a bus into town and trying to navigate your way there on foot.

It means you should pay extra money to take a taxi home at night if you don’t feel comfortable walking through the neighborhood on your own.

It means paying more to stay in a central neighborhood with lots of lively activity instead of a cheaper, quiet residential area where you feel isolated.

It means you should choose the dive school with the stellar safety reputation and hundreds of positive TripAdvisor reviews instead of the rough-around-the-edges dive school that will do it for much cheaper.

Build an extra financial cushion into your trip and use it for situations like these: ones where you could travel safely if you spent a little more.
Prepare for the Worst with Documents and Secret Cash
In the event that the worst happens – your purse is stolen, your credit cards are suddenly maxed out, you get sick and need to go to the hospital – it’s good to have a backup plan.
For documents, keep front-and-back copies of your credit cards saved to cloud storage like Google Docs or Dropbox, as well as a copy of your passport. It’s a good idea to keep your bank and credit card phone numbers stored in a document as well.

In addition to the documents, keep a backup cash stash. Keep at least $50 in US dollars hidden in a secret spot deep inside your luggage, like inside a tampon applicator or hidden in a sock. In a separate spot, keep a backup credit card.
If your purse or day bag is stolen off your body and literally everything is taken away from you, this will provide you with a temporary financial cushion.

If you’re traveling somewhere with less-than-ideal ATM and internet access, you’ll want to be even more prepared. One of my top travel safety tips for Americans traveling to Cuba is to keep an extra stash of secret money, enough for transportation to Havana Airport and a flight to Cancun, hidden in your underwear at all times.

It may sound a bit extreme, but in a country where you can’t use credit cards or ATMs, you need to be even more prepared than usual in order to travel safely.

Get Travel Insurance
Do you really need travel insurance? Absolutely. It could save your life, and in this day and age, with so many online providers, there’s no reason not to get it.
Whether your luggage is lost, you end up in a political coup or natural disaster, or you need to go to the hospital while on the road, travel insurance will reimburse your expenses. If you’re robbed, travel insurance will provide you with the security you need.

If the very worst happens and you end up losing your life, good travel insurance will allow your family to bring your body home without paying tens of thousands of dollars and getting wrapped up in mountains of red tape.
In short, if you can’t afford travel insurance, you shouldn’t be traveling in the first place.

Be sure to examine prospective travel insurance policies in depth, because they might not cover your personal situation. Many insurance plans won’t cover certain adventure sports or particular countries or regions. Most plans will only cover a fraction of the value of your electronics.

What’s a good company? I personally use and recommend World Nomads.
Check in Regularly
It’s a good idea for at least one designated friend or family member to have a copy of your itinerary in advance: your flight numbers, your accommodation, and a general schedule of where you’ll be on which dates, as well as information on your travel insurance, credit cards, and a bank account number.
Plan ahead of time how you’ll check in and how often, whether it’s through daily emails, texts, social media updates, or regular Skype chats. Whatever you choose to do, make sure you keep a consistent schedule.

When I left for my first long-term solo trip to Southeast Asia in 2010, my parents insisted I email them every day. At first, I thought this was way too much — but I was surprised how much I enjoyed checking in with them each day and telling them what I was up to!
These days, we’re more relaxed and I email them every few days when on the road, but I send them a daily update when I’m somewhere they’re a bit more nervous about, like Lebanon or Colombia.

Staying in touch is a way to assuage the fears of your loved ones, but if you find yourself in trouble, they would be able to locate you much more easily than if you had been vague about your whereabouts.
“You shouldn’t go there. It’s not safe.”
STOP.
As soon as you announce your upcoming travels, no matter to whom, you’ll probably be hit with at least one person saying, “It’s not safe.”

Whether the person is protesting the act of solo female travel — which is ridiculous — or travel to a particular destination, it’s important to evaluate whether or not this concern is warranted.

In short, when people voice concerns about your travels, it’s important to consider the source. Here are some examples of the most common sources that provide inaccurate or incomplete information.
The Concerned Loved One
“I don’t want you going to the Balkans. That’s not safe.”
You love your family and friends. You don’t want to upset them, but you want to be clear that the decision is yours. That’s why it’s critical that you walk the line between giving them the benefit of the doubt and taking their advice with a large grain of salt.
It’s possible that when your parents hear about Bosnia or Kosovo, they’ve only thought of those countries in the context of war, violence, or ethnic cleansing, when in reality, the Balkans have been safe for travelers for more than a decade. Likewise, they may lump Jordan in with more troubled countries in the Middle East like Syria, when in reality Jordan is an extremely safe place to travel.
You and I both know that these views are not accurate. And while you should do your loved ones the courtesy of listening to their concerns and discussing how you’ll stay safe, it’s important not to let their opinions overpower you to the point of changing your trip.

When listening to a concerned loved one, here are things to keep in mind:

Does this person travel?

Does this person travel in my style of traveling (i.e. backpacking as opposed to resort travel)?

Has this person been to this destination?

Has this person been to this destination recently (in the past 3-5 years)?

If the answer to all of these questions is yes, then you’ve most likely got a good source on your hands and should listen closely if he or she voices concerns for your safety.

Consider the source: while your loved ones obviously care about you, they are likely not the most knowledgeable source when it comes to your travel destination.
The Scary Government Warning
“U.S. citizens should continue to defer non-essential travel to ________, due to the high threat of kidnapping of international travelers and violence linked to insurgency and terrorism there.”
Scary, right? It sounds like something out of Venezuela or Yemen.

But this warning is actually for the Philippines.

The Philippines? How is this incredibly safe country on the State Department’s travel warning list?!

In the United States, a country will appear on the State Department’s travel warning list even if the nation’s troubles are limited to one small region. That’s the case in the Philippines, where the terrorist organizations MILF and MNLF have been known to carry out terrorist activity in the Sulu Archipelago and the south of Mindanao.

That region within the Philippines is small — tiny, in fact. The main island of Luzon is completely normal, as are the Visayas (Boracay included) and Palawan, which are the regions visited by the majority of foreign tourists. Most casual tourists wouldn’t visit the Sulu Archipelago. Mindanao itself is quite large — the second largest island in the Philippines — and some parts, including the region surrounding Cagayan de Oro, are popular with tourists, but the terrorism-affected areas of the south are only a small portion of the island itself.

In other words, read through your government’s travel warnings carefully. While your country could be on the list, your particular destination might not be affected whatsoever.

The problem is that many people take government warnings as gospel — that if a country is on the list, it shouldn’t be visited under any conditions. But that’s not true.
Consider the source: government warnings are meant to be read in depth and problems in one region do not indicate problems in the entire country.
If a country is engulfed in violence to the point of dominating news coverage in your home country, chances are the troubled country will be covered in a manner that paints a grim image — especially on the 24-hour news channels that are constantly competing to outdo each other.

Thailand is the perfect example of this. Bangkok has been going through protests since November 2013, an echo of the situation three years ago. That said, outside Bangkok, things are 100% normal, and even within Bangkok, the protests can be easily avoided.

That’s not the image painted by the media. From what you see on the news, you’d think the whole city is burning and that people are fleeing in droves, which couldn’t be further of the truth.

Consider the source: the news is not in the business of showing you what it’s like to travel there.
The Faux-It-All
“What if the Khmer Rouge rise again?”

Believe it or not, somebody said those words to me when I planned my first trip to Southeast Asia.

You will always meet people who think they know all there is to know about the world and make wild assumptions without any knowledge or evidence to back them up.

Don’t waste your time and energy arguing with people like this. Smile, nod, thank them for their concern, and save the eye-rolling for when you get home.
How to Find a Reputable Source
If you’re concerned about upcoming travels, it’s a good idea to find a source — or, ideally, a few sources — that you can trust. That means someone who is familiar with your destination and has traveled there within the past few years.
Talk to a travel blogger. A travel blogger who has recently been to your destination would be happy to give you answers to any specific questions you have. If you don’t know a blogger who has been to that region, ask a travel blogger you know for a recommendation. I’m always happy to refer readers to bloggers who are more experienced in traveling Mexico and India, for example.

Join the local Couchsurfing community. It seems like every major city or country in the world has its own community on Couchsurfing.org, complete with a forum and a calendar of local events, and you can join any of them. In each regional group you’ll find lots of locals and expats happy to answer any questions you might have.
Ask on public forums. While Lonely Planet’s Thorn Tree is an enormous travel forum with lots of readers, some newbies are shocked by how harsh some of the members can be. My suggestion? Read the FAQs for each country/region’s forum and search your question before asking it, else you might be met with comments of “You could have found this by doing a search” (so helpful). Alternatively, you can seek out local and expat forums for your destination.

In short: communication, communication, communication.
Be prepared to talk extensively about how you plan to stay safe while traveling.  Safety is likely your parents’ biggest concern.  Talk your way through worst-case scenarios — if all your credit cards are hacked, if you end up severely injured, if you’re robbed, if you run out of money.  Familiarize them with your travel insurance.  Talk about not drinking too much and the prevalence of date rape drugs in party destinations.
Be in touch with people who have done the same thing you are planning to do.  One of my big influences before I started traveling was Lillie from Around the World L — she traveled Southeast Asia for several months on her own at the same age as me two years before I did.  (And it didn’t hurt that she was from Boston as well!)

Showing my parents that a girl like me had done the same thing successfully gave them more reassurance.  (This is especially important for North Americans, as we don’t have a gap year culture like the rest of the world.)

Encourage them to ask you questions.  They might be worrying about things that never crossed your mind.  Your parents might believe war is still going on in Cambodia or the Balkans, while those conflicts have been long over.

Have a long-term plan to talk about — even if you’re not sure.  Protecting your career is probably your parents’ second-biggest concern. Even if you’re not sure what you’re going to do, have at least a rough plan post-travels, whether it’s going back to work in your hometown or finding a job abroad.

Long-term travel has a way of changing you, and don’t be surprised if you have an entirely new plan once you come home.  But your parents don’t need to know that before you set off.

Most importantly: promise to communicate frequently.
When I planned my initial six-month Asia trip, my parents requested that I email them once a day.  I thought they were crazy and that once a day was far too often.  They insisted, and I agreed to do it, sending off my first dispatches from Bangkok.
Then, to my great surprise, I grew to love it.

Every day, I emailed my parents and sister a few lines about my day.  And I still do — not every day when I’m in London, but every day when I’m on the road.  Now that I take most of my pictures on my phone, I email them a few pictures from the day is well.

If I’m going someplace where internet is limited, I let them know in advance.  (And the only places where there has ever been NO working internet was Don Det on Laos and on the Blue Train in South Africa.  You’ll be hard-pressed to be cut off from the internet!)
This communication reassures them that I’m safe and keeps our communication lines open.

There are lots of things you can do to help put your parents’ minds at ease, but don’t expect them to feel completely better until you’ve been traveling for awhile.  Many of their fears are based in the unknown and they won’t be able to understand until they experience it themselves.

Still, sometimes, that’s not enough for some parents.
And that’s very difficult and hurtful.  In that case, all you can do is tell your parents that you love them, that you appreciate what they have to say, that they raised you to make good decisions, and that you’ve decided to travel.
Good luck.  And go have the time of your LIFE!
This week’s question is about relationships and how they fit into the context of long-term travel.
Most long-term travelers I know spent years dreaming, planning, and saving money before actually taking the plunge and leaving on their travels.  If your boyfriend isn’t doing any of those things now, less than a year before your departure date, when is he going to?

The fact that you’ve barely even discussed this with your boyfriend is pretty telling.

So that answers that question.  But is your relationship salvageable?

Keeping up a relationship when one partner is traveling long-term is an extremely difficult thing to do.  I would only recommend doing so if you have an exceptionally strong relationship, have phenomenal communication skills, and are planning a future together.

If you have a relationship like that, then by all means, go for it.  But if you’re not quite there, staying together will cause more pain in the long run.

My message to you: It is better to have a peaceful, amicable breakup now than a messy, drawn-out breakup while you’re thousands of miles apart.

Please don’t feel guilty — you’re not selfish.  You’re not married.  You don’t have kids.  Though things might be difficult in the beginning, everyone will heal from this.  You owe it to yourself to go after your dreams.  You don’t want to be on your deathbed thinking about the dream trip that slipped out from beneath your fingers.

I have the feeling that you wrote to me because part of you is ready to end your relationship with your boyfriend.  I give you permission.  Let this be your blessing.

Wishing you all the best of luck in whatever you decide to do.
As the departure date of my Colombia trip loomed, knots grew in my stomach. Was I only traveling because I thought I should be traveling? Did I want to be away from my friends and family in New York for 19 days when I had so many more travels coming up this fall?

Would I be able to get work done there? Would I miss a lot of cool events at home? What was the point of paying rent in expensive New York if I was going to be paying for simultaneous accommodation as well?!
I flipped back and forth a lot. As late as the day before, I told my friends I was split 80/20 in favor of not going.

This happens to all of us — even the pros.
At some point before your trip, you’ll likely feel a few doubts creeping in. Usually at the last minute, within a few days of your departure.
This is completely normal and it happens to everyone at some point.

What can trigger this? Something as innocuous as hearing friends make plans for when you’ll be away. It could be an offhand comment from someone about how your destination is dangerous or boring. Or realizing that you accidentally booked a trip during the Olympics and won’t get to watch them.

Soon, those doubts can snowball into a monster, making you second-guess your thoughts and feelings. But if you plan a strategic defense for this anxiety, you’ll be able to manage it better.
Practice Extra Self-Care Before Your Trip
Even if you feel confident, it’s good to guard against anxiety triggers before you go on your trip. This is especially important if you’re trying to finish up big projects at work or home before you leave.
Here are some ways to practice self-care:

Exercise. Whether you’re a fitness pro or couch potato, make sure you break a sweat regularly. I’m a fan of the 7-minute workout app and dance workouts on YouTube.

Take long walks. Save your podcasts or audiobooks for these walks if you need the motivation.
Meditate. I’m a big fan of the Headspace app, which is ideal for beginners.

Read, write, make music, or release creative energy. Have an outlet that lets you express yourself and your feelings, even if indirectly.

Spend time with loved ones. Let them know how much they mean to you, even if you’re planning a trip without them.

Stay healthy. Eat well, get enough sleep, don’t go on any benders with your friends.
Figure out the source of what’s bothering you.
If your trip is arriving and you’re queasy at the thought of it, try to pinpoint what’s bothering you. Are you nervous about being robbed? Not being able to communicate with anyone? Are you afraid of flying? Or that you’ll be lonely? Do you think you’ll miss an important event at home?
Once you identify the source, see what you can do to remedy it. Would you feel more confident about not getting pickpocketed if you bought a camera bag that locked? If you’re nervous about meeting people, why don’t you post a message on the local Couchsurfing group or book yourself into a dorm or private room at a social hostel?

Sometimes you’ll only be worried about the unknown. Which, again, is totally normal. In that case, it can help to plan out your first day on the road.

Plan your arrival and first 24 hours on the ground.
I did this meticulously for my arrival in Bangkok in 2010, the trip that kicked off my full-time travels. This was my first time in Asia and although I knew intellectually that Thailand would be an easy region in which to travel, I was nervous about facing an entirely new culture.
Here’s what I planned:

After going through immigration, I would go to the ATM and take out cash.

I would get a taxi to my guesthouse, Wild Orchid Villa, and I had a piece of paper with the address written in Thai as well.

I would check into my guesthouse and email my family to let them know I made it.

I would go to sleep and then walk to Wat Phra Kaew to see the Grand Palace and Wat Pho the next morning.

I would get street food somewhere for lunch.

I would meet blogger friends for dinner on Khao San Road that night.

Now, that didn’t all go to plan. The cab driver had trouble finding my guesthouse and kept stopping to ask people for directions. I had to ask for new rooms twice because the doors didn’t lock well. And I didn’t sleep a wink my entire first night due to jet lag. But having that outline kept me focused and comfortable.

I reminded myself of this for my Colombia trip. I didn’t have to have Santa Marta and Tayrona National Park completely figured out before I left. Just a few things to do in Cartagena would be enough. (As it went, I axed Santa Marta and Tayrona completely because I couldn’t stand the humidity on the coast.)
Give yourself an extra financial cushion.
One of my top tips for travelers, especially solo female travelers, is to financially invest in your safety. That means spending money on a cab if you’re not comfortable walking or taking public transportation at night. Or booking a more expensive hotel if it’s in a nicer neighborhood.
I think the same advice holds if you’re nervous before your trip. If you want to do a day trip somewhere that requires a lot of bus changes, why not book a direct organized tour? It will be easier and you might meet new friends. If you’re not sure whether you can handle a dorm, book a single room for your first few nights and then see if you feel like doing a dorm later on.

Just knowing that the extra money is there to spend it if you need it can be reassuring.

Remember that this is YOUR TRIP.
You can do whatever you want on this trip. You can be adventurous — or take it easy. You can be super social — or solitary. Nobody at home is judging you on just how far off the beaten path you go. (Granted, as travel bloggers, it’s different for us, but most of you reading this don’t have to worry about that.)
And sometimes your dream itinerary won’t work out. If you get to Venice and realize it’s sticky and expensive and overwhelmingly crowded, you have the freedom to leave. (My recommendation? Take a train down to Bologna to explore Emilia-Romagna, or get a ferry to Rovinj in Croatia.) Don’t feel like you have to stay because it’s Venice.

I spend a lot of time sitting in cafes, no matter where I go. That’s important to me. I need a caffeine hit every afternoon like clockwork, and as an introvert, I need that time to get back inside my head. Some people consider that wasted time. But for me, it’s vital.
Err on the Side of Going, But Sometimes It’s Okay to Cancel
There may come a point when you’re considering whether or not to cancel a trip. Most of the time, you should push through your fears and go anyway, but there are occasional instances when canceling is the right decision.
Thinking about the trips that I’ve had to cancel in the past, some of them were for better reasons than others.

I canceled Greece two years ago. I wasn’t in a good spot to travel — I was still reeling from several rough months in my personal life and I needed the extra time to put myself back together before Sri Lanka a month later.
I lost the cost of a TBEX conference ticket and a one-way flight. The worst part was letting down my friends Katie and Becki, as we had planned to rent an apartment together in Athens.

I canceled Burning Man last year. It was July, I had done zero preparation, and it would be expensive and complicated, so it was easier just to sell the ticket. Burning Man is not something you can half-ass. You need to get a vehicle and bring everything you need to survive in the desert, plus costumes and/or art to contribute to the community.

Fortunately, my would-be companion felt the same way, and we had only spent money on the festival tickets. I had a buyer within one minute of posting on Facebook.

I came home early from Thailand last year. It was supposed to be a five-week trip to Thailand and Myanmar; I capped it at three weeks in Thailand. Honestly, as much as I enjoyed my time in Koh Lanta with Brenna, I probably shouldn’t have taken the trip. I was hypnotized by cheap fares and going through the motions of what a traveler was “supposed” to do.
I had secured a super-cheap $550 round-trip flight from New York to Bangkok; the flight was nonrefundable and I had to spend roughly the same amount to get home early. Eek.

I think I made the right decision on Greece and Burning Man; Thailand could have gone either way.

But Colombia? I’m so glad I’m here. The trip is about a week longer than it should have been, I’ll give it that. But it’s so good to be here for both personal and professional reasons. It’s been a while since I’ve been on an adventurous solo trip and I think I’ve got my groove back.
Remember Your Limits Before You Book Your Next Trip
What led to your anxiety in the first place? Write it down and don’t forget it when you’re planning your next trip. If you avoid these triggers, you might have an easier time on your next trip.
Today I know that my anxiety tends to stem from 1) spending too much time on the road instead of home and 2) getting overwhelmed when I have to do too much work for a complicated trip.

Going forward, I’m going to focus primarily on shorter trips (think 10 days or less) that take place far less often and I’m going to remind myself that I need to spend at least two thirds of my time at home in New York. (With my big New Zealand trip this fall, I won’t be able to put this into practice until January.)

I absolutely love travel planning, but trips that require months of intense work stress me out too much. Because of that, I’m probably best off avoiding trips like The Mongol Rally, which involves buying an old car, fundraising for charity, and securing a million complicated visas.

If I do Burning Man in the future (and I’d like to!), I’m going to pay for a camp where they provide the food, water, and shelter so I can focus on costumes and art. Organizing everything from scratch is too overwhelming for me.
Often, you need to get there before you relax.
99% of the time, you’ll be glad you went. Repeat that to yourself — I’ll be so glad I went on this trip.
But often you don’t realize that until you’re on the ground in your destination. Feeling the different temperature in the air, voices in a different language surrounding you, streets full of different smells and colors — sometimes that’s all you need to remind yourself why you love traveling in the first place.

Put your trust in that feeling, even when you doubt yourself. Almost every time, it will be there when you arrive.












